# 2007

### Performance engineering: Understanding and improving the performance of large-scale codes
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Bailey, David, Robert Lucas, Paul Hovland, Boyana Norris, Kathy Yelick, Dan Gunter, Bronis de Supinski, Dan Quinlan, Pat Worley, Jeff Vetter, Phil Roth, John Mellor-Crummey, Allan Snavely, Jeff Hollingsworth, Dan Reed, Rob Fowler, Ying Zhang, Mary Hall, Jacque Chame, Jack Dongarra, and Shirley Moore. Performance engineering: Understanding and improving the performance of large-scale codes. CT Watch Quarterly, 3(4):18–23, Nov 2007.

### A Unified Software Architecture to Enable Cross-Layer Design in the Future Internet
- DOI: 10.1109/icccn.2007.4317792 
- CITATION: Baldine, I. and M. Vellala and A. Wang and G. N. Rouskas and R. Dutta and D. Stevenson “A Unified Software Architecture to Enable Cross-Layer Design in the Future Internet” in Proceedings of IEEE ICCCN 2007. http://www.csc.ncsu.edu/faculty/rouskas/Publications/Conferences/ICCCN-SILO-2007.pdf

### Building the Bioscience Gateway, Science Gateways: Common Community Interfaces to Grid Resources,
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Blatecky, A., K. Gamiel, L. Ramakrishnan, D. Reed, M. Reed. “Building the Bioscience Gateway, Science Gateways: Common Community Interfaces to Grid Resources,” Global Grid Forum 14, Chicago IL, June 27-30, 2007,

### Qualitative performance characteristics of large-scale scientific workflows executing on the TeraGrid
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Buneci, Emma, and Daniel Reed. Qualitative performance characteristics of large-scale scientific workflows executing on the TeraGrid. Invited Presentation. Teragrid ’07 Conference – Student Research Competition, June 2007.  Best Poster award.

### An open framework for scalable, reconﬁgurable analysis
- DOI: -
- CITATION: de Supinski, B.R., R. Fowler, T. Gamblin, F. Mueller, M. Schulz, and P. Ratn. An open framework for scalable, reconﬁgurable analysis.

### The SILO Architecture for Services Integration, Control, and Optimization for the Future Internet
- DOI: 10.1109/icc.2007.316
- CITATION: Dutta, R. and G. N. Rouskas and I. Baldine and A. Bragg and D. Stevenson “The SILO Architecture for Services Integration, Control, and Optimization for the Future Internet” in Proceedings of IEEE ICC 2007.

### Association between single nucleotide polymorphisms in the cannabinoid receptor gene (CNR1) and impulsivity in southwest California Indians
- DOI: 10.1375/twin.10.6.805 
- CITATION: Ehlers, C.L., W.S. Slutske, P.A. Lind, and K.C. Wilhelmsen (2007). Association between single nucleotide polymorphisms in the cannabinoid receptor gene (CNR1) and impulsivity in southwest California Indians. Twin Res Hum Genet 10, 805-811.

### Heritability of illicit drug use and transition to dependence in Southwest California Indians
- DOI: 10.1097/01.ypg.0000242201.56342.1a 
- CITATION: Ehlers, C.L., T.L. Wall, L. Corey, P. Lau, D.A. Gilder and K.C. Wilhelmsen (2007). Heritability of illicit drug use and  transition to dependence in Southwest California Indians. Psychiatr. Genet 17, 171-176.

### An open framework for scalable, reconfigurable performance analysis
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Gamblin, Todd, Prasun  Ratn,  Bronis R. de Supinkski, Martin Schulz, Frank Mueller, Robert J. Fowler, and Daniel A. Reed. An open  framework for scalable, reconfigurable performance analysis. In Supercomputing 2007 (SC’07),  Reno, NV, November 2007 (poster).

### ?
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Guan, X., D. Bowman, J.L. Tilson, D. Simpson, G. Rendon, E. Jakobsson and W. Kaufman. “”, Determinants of genome stability in human disease,” Chapel Hill, NC, October 2007.

### Gene-lifecourse interaction for alcohol consumption in adolescence and young adulthood: Five monoamine genes
- DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.b.30340 
- CITATION: Guo, G., K.C. Wilhelmsen, and N. Hamilton (2007). Gene-lifecourse interaction for alcohol consumption in adolescence and young adulthood: Five monoamine genes.  Am J Med. Genet B.  Neuropsychiatr. Genet 144, 417-423.

### ?
- DOI: -
- CITATION: International Research Network Connections Workshop Report; Future of IRNC Program – October, 2007. http://www.internet2.org/presentations/fall08/20081015-international-thompson.pdf

### Authentic Learning for the 21st Century: An Overview.
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Lombardi, M., M. ELI. “Authentic Learning for the 21st Century: An Overview.” EDUCAUSE. May 2007. http://net.educause.edu/ir/library/pdf/ELI3009.pdf

### Approaches That Work: How Authentic Learning is Transforming Higher Education.
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Lombardi, M. M., “Approaches That Work: How Authentic Learning is Transforming Higher Education.”  EDUCAUSE. July 2007.

### Gateway to the TeraGrid for Bio-Scientists: A Tutorial. What does it do? How is it used in course curricula? How was it constructed?
- DOI: -
- CITATION: McGee, J., J. L. Tilson, S. McLean. “Gateway to the TeraGrid for Bio-Scientists: A Tutorial. What does it do? How is it used in course curricula? How was it constructed?”, TeraGrid 2007, Madison, WI, June, 2007.

### RENCI Summer Institute
- DOI: -
- CITATION: McLean, S., J. Shelton, J.L. Tilson, N. Nicely, E. Scott, D. Bedard, T. Ford, (RENCI) and B. Gotwals, G. Gabrielli, G.A. Stefan (NCSSM) “RENCI Summer Institute” July 2007.

### Quantitative effects of common genetic variations in the 3’UTR of the human LDL-receptor gene and their associations with plasma lipid levels in the Atherosclerosis Risk  in Communities study
- DOI: 10.1007/s00439-007-0422-3
- CITATION: Muallem, H., K.E. North, M. Kakoki, M.K. Wojczynski, X. Li, M. Grove, E. Boerwinkle, K.C. Wilhelmsen, G. Heiss, and N. Maeda (2007). Quantitative effects of common genetic variations in the 3’UTR of the human LDL-receptor gene and their associations with plasma lipid levels in the Atherosclerosis Risk  in Communities study. Hum Genet 121, 421-431.

### Bridging Teaching, Learning, and Education in Grid-enabled Bioinformatics
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Rendon, G., S. McLean, J.R. Mashl, M.A., Miller, N. Nicely, B. Southey, J. Tenegra, J. L.  Tilson, and E. Jakobsson. “Bridging Teaching, Learning, and Education in Grid-enabled Bioinformatics”, TeraGrid 2007, Madison, WI, June, 2007.

### Finding prokaryotic ion channels
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Rendon, G., J. Tilson,  M-F Ger, E. Jakobsson. “Finding prokaryotic ion channels”, American Chemical Society ACS’07, Annual Meeting, Boston, MA 2007.
- RELATED: 10.1016/j.bpj.2009.12.3891

### Visualization and the Larger World of Computer Graphics: What’s Happening Out There?
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Rhyne, T.M. “Visualization and the Larger World of Computer Graphics: What’s Happening Out There?”, in TR NEWS, (a publication of the Transportation Research Board), 252, September-October 2007, pp. 20 – 23. http://research.csc.ncsu.edu/cva/TRN_RHYNE.pdf
- RELATED: 10.1145/1401132.1401259

### On the Suitability of Composable Services for the Assurable Future Internet
- DOI: 10.1109/milcom.2007.4455045 
- CITATION: Stevenson, D. and R. Dutta and G. N. Rouskas and D. Reeves and I. Baldine “On the Suitability of Composable Services for the Assurable Future Internet” in Proceedings of MILCOM 2007. http://net-silos.net/joomla/index.php?option=com_docman&task=doc_view&gid=109&Itemid=39#320,25,Slide 25

### Genetic and environmental sources of variation in heart rate response to infused nicotine in twins 
- DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.epi-06-1093 
- CITATION: Swan, G.E., C.N. Lessov-Schlaggar, R.E.  Krasnow, K.C. Wilhelmsen, P. Jacob, and N.L. Benowitz. (2007). Genetic and environmental sources of variation in heart rate response to infused nicotine in twins. Cancer  Epidemiol. Biomarkers Prev. 16, 1057-1064. http://cebp.aacrjournals.org/cgi/content/full/16/6/1057

### MotifNetwork: A Grid-enabled Workflow for High-throughput Domain-centered Analysis of Biological Sequences
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Tilson, Jeffery R., Gloria Rendon, and Eric Jakobsson “MotifNetwork: A Grid-enabled Workflow for High-throughput Domain-centered Analysis of Biological Sequences”, Pacific Rim Application and Grid Middleware Assembly (PRAGMA13) Workshop. NCSA, Sept, 2007.
- RELATED: 10.1109/bibe.2007.4375625

### MotifNetwork: Genome-Wide Domain  Analysis using Grid-enabled Workflows
- DOI: 10.1109/bibe.2007.4375662
- CITATION: Tilson, Jeffrey L. , Alan Blatecky, Gloria Rendon, Mao-Feng Ger, Eric Jakobssonc. “MotifNetwork: Genome-Wide Domain  Analysis using Grid-enabled Workflows” Bioinformatics and Bioengineering, 2007. BIBE  2007. Proceedings of the 7th IEEE International Conference on 14-17 Oct. 2007 Page(s):872-879.

### MotifNetwork: A Grid-enabled Workflow for High-throughput Domain Analysis of Biological Sequences: Implications for annotation and study of phylogeny, protein interactions, and intraspecies variation
- DOI: 10.1109/bibe.2007.4375625
- CITATION: Tilson, Jeffrey L., Gloria Rendon, Mao-Feng Ger, Eric Jakobsson. “MotifNetwork: A Grid-enabled Workflow for High-throughput Domain Analysis of Biological Sequences: Implications for annotation and study of phylogeny, protein interactions, and intraspecies variation”  Bioinformatics and Bioengineering, 2007. BIBE 2007. Proceedings of the 7th IEEE International Conference on 14-17 Oct. 2007 Page(s):620-627. – Best Paper award.

### MotifNetwork: Genome-Wide Domain  Analysis using Grid-enabled Workflows
- DOI: 10.1109/bibe.2007.4375662 
- CITATION: Tilson, Jeffrey L. , Alan Blatecky, Gloria Rendon, Mao-Feng Ger, Eric Jakobsson. “MotifNetwork: Genome-Wide Domain  Analysis using Grid-enabled Workflows” Bioinformatics and Bioengineering, 2007. BIBE  2007. Proceedings of the 7th IEEE International Conference on 14-17 Oct. 2007 Page(s):872-879.

### MotifNetwork: A Grid-enabled Workflow for High-throughput Domain Analysis of Biological Sequences: Implications for annotation and study of phylogeny, protein interactions, and intraspecies variation
- DOI: 10.1109/bibe.2007.4375625 
- CITATION: Tilson, Jeffrey L., Gloria Rendon, Mao-Feng Ger, Eric Jakobsson. “MotifNetwork: A Grid-enabled Workflow for High-throughput Domain Analysis of Biological Sequences: Implications for annotation and study of phylogeny, protein interactions, and intraspecies variation”  Bioinformatics and Bioengineering, 2007. BIBE 2007. Proceedings of the 7th IEEE International Conference on 14-17 Oct. 2007 Page(s):620-627. – Best Paper award.

### A Composition Algorithm for the {SILO} Cross-Layer Optimization Service Architecture
- DOI: -
- CITATION: Vellala, M. and A. Wang and G. N. Rouskas and R. Dutta and  I. Baldine and D. Stevenson “A Composition Algorithm for the {SILO} Cross-Layer Optimization Service Architecture” in Proceedings of ANTS 2007. http://rouskas.csc.ncsu.edu/Publications/Conferences/ANTS-Vellala-2007.pdf

### Simulating association studies: a data-based resampling method for candidate regions or whole genome scans
- DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btm386
- CITATION: Wright, F.A., Huang, H., Guan, X., Gamiel, K., Jeffries, C., Barry, W.T., de Villena, F.P., Sullivan, P.F., Wilhelmsen, K.C., and Zou,F. (2007). Simulating association studies: a data-based resampling method for candidate regions or whole genome scans. Bioinformatics. 23, 2581-2588.

### Simulating Association Studies: a Data-based Resampling Method for Candidate Regions or Whole Genome Scans.
- DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btm386
- CITATION: Wright, Fred A., Hanwen Huang, Xiaojun Guan, Kevin Gamiel, Clark Jeffries, William T. Barry, Sullivan Pardo-Manuel, Kirk C. Wilhelmsen, and Fei Zou. 2007. “Simulating Association Studies: a Data-based Resampling Method for Candidate Regions or Whole Genome Scans.” In Bioinformatics,  2007 23: 2581-2588. http://rouskas.csc.ncsu.edu/Publications/Conferences/ANTS-Vellala-2007.pdf

### US QCD computational performance studies with PERI
- DOI: 10.1088/1742-6596/78/1/012083
- CITATION: Zhang, Y., R. Fowler, K. Huck, A., Malony, A. Porterfield, D. Reed, S.  Shende, V. Taylor, and X. Wu.  US QCD computational performance studies with PERI. J. Phys: Conf. Ser, 78(012083):5pp, August 2007.

